I love using my hands when I present.
Quite often I only use one hand
as the other hand is holding this little clicker here, okay?
If I have to hold a microphone in one hand,
then I make sure it's close enough to my mouth,
make sure you do that, right.
I've actually made a lot of mistakes
in speeches where it's too far away.
Right, make sure it's up here, okay?
But if I do that I have the clicker in the other hand,
right and I actually use this clicker hand
for body language when I'm talking, right,
when I'm talking.
Anyway.
We're gonna cover non-hand-based body language
later in the current scene, okay?
But I like to point out slides,
and never at the audience
as it could come across as arrogant,
I'm talking to you, like that, okay?
And as mentioned earlier in the course
if you're presenting in other countries,
practice in front of somebody familiar
with the dos and don'ts of that culture, okay?
You know, for example, a thumbs-up works in many countries
but less so in other regions like the Middle East.
You know, when I give presentations in Dubai
I try not to use gestures like that, okay?
Okay, moving on to using the laser pointer, right?
And I don't know if this is gonna work,
so I'll just point it had my hand here, right.
I love laser pointers, right.
You can see that green, right?
I don't know if you can see it on the back there.
Anyway, I love laser pointers.
I like to use the ones that are green, right,
because red is not the best color to use
in many countries, right?
Red kind of means urgent, right?
And I've actually been criticized
by some of my UTME students for using red font
in some speeches, right, in some of my courses,
so I got rid of a lot of that, right.
So, you know, customer's always right.
Anyway, so I love using a pointer, right,
if I have to point at something,
and again, green is kind of a cool one to use.
Obviously you don't point it into the crowd
because you can blind somebody.
Is that working?
You see that on your face?
There you go, I got you a little bit there.
Sorry.
Okay.
Okay, it's just prepare and be aware, k?
And the safest color to use in most countries
is apparently not green, it's blue, right,
and I googled it, therefore it must be true
as a reference, right?
But apparently blue is the safest color
to use for fonts, okay?
And again, practice with somebody
that's familiar with the local customs.
Thank you, okay.
Now, when you point it at the screen, right,
say this is here is the screen
and I have, you know, slides up here, right?
Don't turn your back to the audience completely, right,
as it can be insulting, right?
It can be insulting, right?
Just kind of turn sideways,
and you get to practice it a lot too, right?
And I like to make a fist too to express something
that I'm passionate about, right.
It's just me.
And like my son I like to dream big,
and I use a wide array of hand gestures.
That being said here are three hand gestures
that are worth avoiding, okay?
Number one, avoid crossing your arms
as it shows that you are potentially close-minded
or too confident, right?
Another one is this.
Try to avoid putting your hands in your pocket,
I should say, as it shows that you're not really
taking this presentation seriously enough,
and it's a cultural no-no
in some countries as well, okay?
Yeah, okay.
And then lastly, avoid putting your hands
on your hips as this could show that you're,
I don't know, you're kind of arrogant, whatever.
You know, it is what it is.
And then just given social media,
every appearance is crucial, okay?
Everything you do
because just one picture of you
presenting with you hands on your hips,
even if it's for a split second, right,
it gets tweeted immediately, right?
And it can dilute the underlying presentation content
or message, right?
And all people will remember is the picture
of you, you know, potentially being too confident.